---
title: Nimiq x KuCoin Early Staking Campaign Launch
description: Exciting times are ahead! With the switch to Nimiq Proof-of-Stake around the corner, KuCoin is offering its users the chance to get in early on the staking experience. Earn rewards by staking your NIM now, and don't miss the new trading competition. Everything you need to know is right here.
slug: nimiq-x-kucoin-early-staking-campaign-launch
publishedAt: "2024-05-21"
updatedAt: 2024-05-23T23:33:25+0000
authors:
  - Team Nimiq
image: /assets/images/media/ZkudwSol0Zci9TA3_BlogStakeatKucoin.png
---

Nimiq is currently running on a Proof-of-Work (PoW) system, but the landscape is set to change dramatically with the migration to Nimiqs own Proof-of-Stake (PoS) consensus mechanism. This major upgrade, the result of four years of research and development, will enable transactions to be processed at speeds of over 1000 transactions per second, with confirmation time of around one second, increasing performance and enhancing user experience significantly, all the while maintaining decentralization and censorship resistance of the network, and running nodes in the browser.

### KuCoin Joins the Celebration

As Nimiq plans to make this big switch, KuCoin is here to make sure you are part of it from the start. We are excited to have KuCoin join the Nimiq Proof-of-Stake migration as a launch partner and support this change by allowing Nimiq users to participate in staking early. KuCoin users will not only have the opportunity to stake on the day of the launch but can also earn pre-launch rewards through the special early staking offer. It’s a perfect chance to earn rewards while helping to pilot the new system.

### Get Ready for More Action

The excitement doesn’t end with early staking. Alongside early staking, we're hosting a ‘Predict & Earn’ contest and we've got even more surprises! These are fantastic ways to get more involved, have some fun, and make your journey into the new Nimiq ecosystem as exciting as possible.

### Ready, Set, Stake!

The countdown is on! Gear up your NIM for an enhanced staking experience on KuCoin with the new Proof-of-Stake system. Now's the perfect time to dive in, earn early rewards, and enjoy the buzz of competition.

[Stay tuned](https://twitter.com/nimiq) to get all the news. Let's make the most of this upgrade together!

Team Nimiq

## Disclaimer

None of the statements must be viewed as an endorsement or recommendation for Nimiq, any cryptocurrency, or investment product. Neither the information, nor any opinion contained herein constitutes a solicitation or offer by the creators or participants to buy or sell any securities or other financial instruments or provide any investment advice or service. All statements contained in statements made in Nimiq’s web pages, blogs, social media, press releases, or in any place accessible by the public, and oral statements that may be made by Nimiq or project associates that are not statements of historical fact, constitute “forward-looking statements”. These forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors that may cause the actual future results, performance, or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance, or achievements expected, expressed, or implied by such forward-looking statements. The final decision of implementing any changes to the Nimiq protocol, including its parameters, always remains with the decentralized node operators who agree what version and parameters to deploy and support.
