---
title: Join Gate.io's Nimiq Early Staking Campaign in Preparation for the Migration to Nimiq Proof-of-Stake!
description: As we gear up for the exciting launch of Nimiq Proof-of-Stake (PoS), Gate users can earn rewards by staking their NIM early. Plus, don't miss out on our trading competition and more surprises along the way. Discover all the details right here.
slug: join-gate.ios-nimiq-early-staking-campaign-in-prep
publishedAt: "2024-06-20"
updatedAt: 2024-06-20T00:18:55+0000
authors:
  - Team Nimiq
image: /images/blog/join-gate.ios-nimiq-early-staking-campaign-in-prep/ZnNWppm069VX15bW_BlogStakeatGATE.io1.7.png
---

Nimiq's Blockchain is currently running using Proof-of-Work (PoW) but is on the brink of a significant upgrade to Proof-of-Stake. This evolution will increase the blockchain's performance, pushing transaction speeds to over 1000 transactions per second, with confirmation times dropping to around one second.

### Gate.io Joins the Celebration

The Nimiq community is buzzing with excitement as we prepare for the transition to Proof-of-Stake, and we have some thrilling news for everyone using Gate.io. Not only will Nimiq users be able to stake within Gate.io, but they will also have the chance to receive rewards before the migration even happens!

Through Gate's HODL&EARN program, users can already start earning NIM. Gate already launched a first season of the HODL&Earn campaign last month to increase the visibility of Nimiq within Gate.io’s user community, and now we’d like to extend a second season to the entire Nimiq Community members! The season will begin on June 25, and by participating, users will earn 150% APR! You can[ find all relevant information from Gate.io here.](https://www.gate.io/article/36693)

In this second season, users can lock up NIM for 14 days with a starting position of 3,800 NIM and a maximum position of 740,170 NIM. The principal and interest will be distributed when the lock-up period ends.

Don’t just wait for the transition—seize this opportunity to get ahead and enhance your participation with early staking at Gate.io!

### More Excitement on the Horizon

This is not stopping at early staking! Prepare for trading competitions and additional surprises, thanks to the collaboration with Gate.io. These initiatives are designed to engage the Nimiq  community and enrich your experience as part of the journey into Proof-of-Stake.

### Don't Miss Out!

The countdown has begun! Ready your NIM and prepare for an enhanced staking experience with Nimiq Proof-of-Stake on Gate.io.

With significant upgrades on the horizon, now is the perfect time to get involved and take advantage of early rewards and exciting competitions.

Join us as we embark on this revolutionary transition to Nimiq Proof-of-Stake!

Pura Vida
Team Nimiq
